content/volunteers.md, before:

+++
title = "Volunteers"
layout = "generic"
+++

<style>
h2 {
  font-weight: bold;
  border-bottom: thin black solid;
}
h3 {
  font-weight: bold;
}
</style>

# Volunteering

This is general information for volunteers at the NI Developer Conference. The initials key is available in the Volunteer email.

[->WHERE AM I SUPPOSED TO BE WHEN? (PDF download)](/downloads/volunteer-agenda.pdf): this visual guide shows by what time we are expecting people to be where. This is not necessarily comprehensive, so check for your initials below. If you notice a discrepancy between that and the below, please let us know.

Please do make sure you are familiar with the sections relevant to you below.

## Key Info

We recommend you have basic familiarity with these documents, and are particularly aware of their content if you will be on the Info desk during the day.

* [Accessibility](/accessibility)
* [Agenda](/agenda)
* [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct)
* [Exhibitor Info](/exhibitors)
* [Speaker Info](/speakerinfo)
* [Venue](/venue)

If you have any issues that arise that involve health, safety, harassment or offensive behaviour, please let one of the organizing committee know: Art Knipe, Joan McAleer, Mark Allan, Martin Naughton and Phil Weir.

We will be communicating through a private channel on the [NI Tech & Design slack](https://nitech.slack.com) on the day. The slack channel is called #nidevconf-volunteers.

In particular, please help attendees to make use of (and be aware of) the Project Room (by Farset) and Open Space (by Tech Space). If you are not clear on the function of either of these, please do be sure to ask.

## Roles

Some tasks may be "all hands on deck" and involve volunteers with any or all primary roles.

### Short Roles

#### Welcome Wagon

*PW*

Someone to stay out the front from 8.30am until 9.40am (or a 15-20min subset, if it quietens down fast) to make sure people know where to park, manage the queue, direct to the Creche (via side-door, unless lift required), provide basic accessibility info.

Chalk the parent-child spaces (8 or 9), with one car-free side on/close to a level with the entrance.

#### Projector Checker

*PW*

Make sure all projectors are off at lunch

#### Helping Open Space Kick-off

*AK*

Helping the Open Space kick off, and supporting the Tech Space coordinators.

#### Checking the Bot

*AK, MC*

Making sure everything's fine for us arriving.

### Registration Desk

*ZGT, EK, DA, AK*

* The desk duties will start at 08:20
* Checking attendees in on the ti.to app
* they do not have a name badge then write their name on a blank name badge
* Handing the attendee their mug
* Moving the registration desk to outside LR1 during the opening plenary.

### Information Desk

*JMcA, DA, HE*

* Helping people with any queries, or redirecting to a touchpoint
* Calling security of any issues or for first aid

### Roving

*MN, MA, PW*

Check in on Info Desk, Quiet Room, Project Room, Green Room and Creche every 15min. Circulate around the talk rooms.

### On-call

Available to be called in for room monitor role, if an issue occurs, or an additional room monitor is needed, during a session.

### Touchpoint

The following roles are points-of-contact for specific types of issue, to help correlate issues and coordinate consistent responses where required. If you do have an urgent issue, please report it to _any_ committee member, or to the Info Desk, unless there are clear reasons to do otherwise. However, please do ensure, if an issue has arisen and been dealt with, that the relevant touch-point (or Info Desk) is made aware.

As the committee functions by consensus, where there is a disagreement, none of these touchpoint roles supersede committee consensus.

#### Accessibility (Art)

Ensuring fair access to facilities and enjoyment of the conference by all attendees, speakers and volunteers. Physical accessibility of the building, obstacles.

#### Welfare (Joan)

Ensuring a physically, emotionally and mentally safe environment is maintained. Harassment, bullying &amp; abuse. Creche, P-T parking and childcare provisions.

#### Exhibitors &amp; Catering (Martin)

Addressing needs of exhibitors, and use of the Atrium space. Ensuring adequate supply of food, hot drinks, water, crockery and utensils.

#### Equipment &amp; After-Party (Phil)

Handling complications with projectors, or other electronic equipment. Resolving persistent WiFi or other connectivity issues. Ensuring the after-party food, drink, tokens and venue work correctly.

#### Speakers (Mark)

Ensuring any specific speaker needs or challenges are addressed. Contingency for missing or unavailable speakers. Reference point for linking-up speakers and rooms/MCs.

### Talk Room

Room-based roles have mostly shared responsibility; in each full-talk room, while talks are running, there should be one MC and one room monitor. Except in an emergency, please ensure at least one of the MC and room monitor (generally the MC) is in the room at all times.

The talk rooms are:

* **LR1** (capacity TBC) [aka Room 0]
    * Morning: GlR (MC) &amp; GC (mon)
    * Afternoon: GF (MC) &amp; JMcD (mon)
* **LR3** [aka Room 1]
    * Morning: KM (MC) &amp; PN (mon)
    * Afternoon: SMcC (MC) &amp; NG (mon)
* **Conference** [aka Room 2]
    * Morning: PA (MC) &amp; GaR (mon)
    * Afternoon: AMcK (MC) &amp; MC (mon)
* **Raked** [aka Room 3]
    * Morning: HMcN (MC) &amp; HE (mon)
    * Afternoon: MK (MC) &amp; ZGT (mon)
* **Lightning**
    * Morning: JMcC (MC) &amp; EM (mon)

The Plenary room will be split into the Lightning and Conference rooms at 9:40am, over 5-10min, and rejoined at 17:50.

#### Monitor

If you are looking after a room in the morning, we would ask that you make sure your room is prepped during the period from 8:30 to 9:15. Phil will meet you at the room to walk through the technical aspects with you around 9am.

If you are looking after a room in the afternoon, we would ask that you check in with the info desk 30-40min before your session starts.

1. Make sure interstitials are shown for at least 5mins between every talk: [link here](http://nidc.flaxandteal.co.uk)
    * These communicate several key bits of info, such as other talks (no leaflets, and not everybody has the app!)
    * They can be paused or played at the bottom left of the screen (they auto-cycle)
2. Ensure the room does not go over capacity. Add a Room Full sign outside the door when the capacity is reached
3. Inform security if First Aid is needed
4. Use Twitter to tweet pictures of the talks on hashtag #nidevconf18
5. Solve, or find someone to solve, technical (or other) issues in the room
6. Get the time cards and any signage from Info Desk, if not in the room
7. Keep sufficient water in the rooms for speakers
8. Keep exits and aisles clear
9. Encourage attendees to fill up empty spaces to let others sit down
10. Keep routes, AV and photography equipment accessible for AV and photographer (DK)
11. **LIGHTNING**: advance the talk counter (so the other rooms can see where in the lightning talks we are)

#### MC

If you are looking after a room in the morning, we would ask that you meet the monitor assigned to your room around 9am, and ensure between then and 9:40 that the room is ready for sharp 9:50 start.

If you are looking after a room in the afternoon, we would ask that you check in with the info desk 30-40min before your session starts.

1. Meet the speakers that are in your session so you know their face and a bit about them for their introduction
2. Inform the speaker how you will indicate how much time is left with the signs
3. Introduce the speaker
4. Keep time of the presentation
5. Inform the speaker of the time left in 10, 5 and 1 minutes signs
6. Engage with the audience to ask questions (if suitable for the speaker/track)
7. Always have a question for the speaker, in case there are no questions from the audience
8. Inform the audience that discussion items can be added to the Open Space
9. Announce fire escape procedure at the start of session in the room
10. Handle inappropriate questions or comments within the room (and coordinate with the monitor to ensure reporting to the Info Desk, where required). Please do be aware that some attendees may struggle with social cues and public boundaries of propriety, and resolving swiftly through a firm, direct and gentle approach may be more effective than either an evasive or abrasive approach.
11. Ensure speakers who do not wish to be recorded or photographed are not (by audience or official photographer)
12. Ensure speakers use both the induction loop and recording microphones

## Tasks

### General

These will be assigned flexibly on the day.

* Sorting lanyards [?]
* Doing a sweep with bin-bags
* Putting up posters and roller banners
* Bringing equipment/media in from van
* Putting up room signs
* Checking on creche supplies
* Helping redirect people from overfull to underfull rooms
* Marking parking spaces
* Assisting anyone who needs accessibility assistance
* Tidying up (that's not QUB's responsibility) / removing posters
* Announcing any changes to all the rooms
* Helping out with tasks in the Project Room or Open Space

### The Great Room Switch

*Morning: HE, MC, GaR, PN, AK, PW, MN, MA*;
*Afternoon: all that are available*

* Rearrange chairs to/from (depending) plenary formation to split-room formation

### Vouchers

*ZGT, HE, NG*

* Hand out 1 food and 1 drink token to each attendee
* One person to hand out tokens marked "D" for dietary requirements, if people have declared in advance

### Non-talk Rooms

These rooms are:

* Creche (1 & 2) [first floor]
* Green room
* Quiet room
* Project room
* Atrium

In the afternoon, the Lightning and Project rooms will be used for the Open Space.

Commit message:

add the catering staff as the first aiders

content/volunteers.md, after:

+++
title = "Volunteers"
layout = "generic"
+++

<style>
h2 {
  font-weight: bold;
  border-bottom: thin black solid;
}
h3 {
  font-weight: bold;
}
</style>

# Volunteering

This is general information for volunteers at the NI Developer Conference. The initials key is available in the Volunteer email.

[->WHERE AM I SUPPOSED TO BE WHEN? (PDF download)](/downloads/volunteer-agenda.pdf): this visual guide shows by what time we are expecting people to be where. This is not necessarily comprehensive, so check for your initials below. If you notice a discrepancy between that and the below, please let us know.

Please do make sure you are familiar with the sections relevant to you below.

## Key Info

We recommend you have basic familiarity with these documents, and are particularly aware of their content if you will be on the Info desk during the day.

* [Accessibility](/accessibility)
* [Agenda](/agenda)
* [Code of Conduct](/code-of-conduct)
* [Exhibitor Info](/exhibitors)
* [Speaker Info](/speakerinfo)
* [Venue](/venue)

If you have any issues that arise that involve health, safety, harassment or offensive behaviour, please let one of the organizing committee know: Art Knipe, Joan McAleer, Mark Allan, Martin Naughton and Phil Weir.

We will be communicating through a private channel on the [NI Tech & Design slack](https://nitech.slack.com) on the day. The slack channel is called #nidevconf-volunteers.

In particular, please help attendees to make use of (and be aware of) the Project Room (by Farset) and Open Space (by Tech Space). If you are not clear on the function of either of these, please do be sure to ask.

## Roles

Some tasks may be "all hands on deck" and involve volunteers with any or all primary roles.

### Short Roles

#### Welcome Wagon

*PW*

Someone to stay out the front from 8.30am until 9.40am (or a 15-20min subset, if it quietens down fast) to make sure people know where to park, manage the queue, direct to the Creche (via side-door, unless lift required), provide basic accessibility info.

Chalk the parent-child spaces (8 or 9), with one car-free side on/close to a level with the entrance.

#### Projector Checker

*PW*

Make sure all projectors are off at lunch

#### Helping Open Space Kick-off

*AK*

Helping the Open Space kick off, and supporting the Tech Space coordinators.

#### Checking the Bot

*AK, MC*

Making sure everything's fine for us arriving.

### Registration Desk

*ZGT, EK, DA, AK*

* The desk duties will start at 08:20
* Checking attendees in on the ti.to app
* they do not have a name badge then write their name on a blank name badge
* Handing the attendee their mug
* Moving the registration desk to outside LR1 during the opening plenary.

### Information Desk

*JMcA, DA, HE*

* Helping people with any queries, or redirecting to a touchpoint
* Calling security of any issues or for first aid

### Roving

*MN, MA, PW*

Check in on Info Desk, Quiet Room, Project Room, Green Room and Creche every 15min. Circulate around the talk rooms.

### On-call

Available to be called in for room monitor role, if an issue occurs, or an additional room monitor is needed, during a session.

### Touchpoint

The following roles are points-of-contact for specific types of issue, to help correlate issues and coordinate consistent responses where required. If you do have an urgent issue, please report it to _any_ committee member, or to the Info Desk, unless there are clear reasons to do otherwise. However, please do ensure, if an issue has arisen and been dealt with, that the relevant touch-point (or Info Desk) is made aware.

As the committee functions by consensus, where there is a disagreement, none of these touchpoint roles supersede committee consensus.

#### Accessibility (Art)

Ensuring fair access to facilities and enjoyment of the conference by all attendees, speakers and volunteers. Physical accessibility of the building, obstacles.

#### Welfare (Joan)

Ensuring a physically, emotionally and mentally safe environment is maintained. Harassment, bullying &amp; abuse. Creche, P-T parking and childcare provisions.

#### Exhibitors &amp; Catering (Martin)

Addressing needs of exhibitors, and use of the Atrium space. Ensuring adequate supply of food, hot drinks, water, crockery and utensils.

#### Equipment &amp; After-Party (Phil)

Handling complications with projectors, or other electronic equipment. Resolving persistent WiFi or other connectivity issues. Ensuring the after-party food, drink, tokens and venue work correctly.

#### Speakers (Mark)

Ensuring any specific speaker needs or challenges are addressed. Contingency for missing or unavailable speakers. Reference point for linking-up speakers and rooms/MCs.

### Talk Room

Room-based roles have mostly shared responsibility; in each full-talk room, while talks are running, there should be one MC and one room monitor. Except in an emergency, please ensure at least one of the MC and room monitor (generally the MC) is in the room at all times.

The talk rooms are:

* **LR1** (capacity TBC) [aka Room 0]
    * Morning: GlR (MC) &amp; GC (mon)
    * Afternoon: GF (MC) &amp; JMcD (mon)
* **LR3** [aka Room 1]
    * Morning: KM (MC) &amp; PN (mon)
    * Afternoon: SMcC (MC) &amp; NG (mon)
* **Conference** [aka Room 2]
    * Morning: PA (MC) &amp; GaR (mon)
    * Afternoon: AMcK (MC) &amp; MC (mon)
* **Raked** [aka Room 3]
    * Morning: HMcN (MC) &amp; HE (mon)
    * Afternoon: MK (MC) &amp; ZGT (mon)
* **Lightning**
    * Morning: JMcC (MC) &amp; EM (mon)

The Plenary room will be split into the Lightning and Conference rooms at 9:40am, over 5-10min, and rejoined at 17:50.

#### Monitor

If you are looking after a room in the morning, we would ask that you make sure your room is prepped during the period from 8:30 to 9:15. Phil will meet you at the room to walk through the technical aspects with you around 9am.

If you are looking after a room in the afternoon, we would ask that you check in with the info desk 30-40min before your session starts.

1. Make sure interstitials are shown for at least 5mins between every talk: [link here](http://nidc.flaxandteal.co.uk)
    * These communicate several key bits of info, such as other talks (no leaflets, and not everybody has the app!)
    * They can be paused or played at the bottom left of the screen (they auto-cycle)
2. Ensure the room does not go over capacity. Add a Room Full sign outside the door when the capacity is reached
3. Inform the Catering staff and a committee member if First Aid is needed
4. Use Twitter to tweet pictures of the talks on hashtag #nidevconf18
5. Solve, or find someone to solve, technical (or other) issues in the room
6. Get the time cards and any signage from Info Desk, if not in the room
7. Keep sufficient water in the rooms for speakers
8. Keep exits and aisles clear
9. Encourage attendees to fill up empty spaces to let others sit down
10. Keep routes, AV and photography equipment accessible for AV and photographer (DK)
11. **LIGHTNING**: advance the talk counter (so the other rooms can see where in the lightning talks we are)

#### MC

If you are looking after a room in the morning, we would ask that you meet the monitor assigned to your room around 9am, and ensure between then and 9:40 that the room is ready for sharp 9:50 start.

If you are looking after a room in the afternoon, we would ask that you check in with the info desk 30-40min before your session starts.

1. Meet the speakers that are in your session so you know their face and a bit about them for their introduction
2. Inform the speaker how you will indicate how much time is left with the signs
3. Introduce the speaker
4. Keep time of the presentation
5. Inform the speaker of the time left in 10, 5 and 1 minutes signs
6. Engage with the audience to ask questions (if suitable for the speaker/track)
7. Always have a question for the speaker, in case there are no questions from the audience
8. Inform the audience that discussion items can be added to the Open Space
9. Announce fire escape procedure at the start of session in the room
10. Handle inappropriate questions or comments within the room (and coordinate with the monitor to ensure reporting to the Info Desk, where required). Please do be aware that some attendees may struggle with social cues and public boundaries of propriety, and resolving swiftly through a firm, direct and gentle approach may be more effective than either an evasive or abrasive approach.
11. Ensure speakers who do not wish to be recorded or photographed are not (by audience or official photographer)
12. Ensure speakers use both the induction loop and recording microphones

## Tasks

### General

These will be assigned flexibly on the day.

* Sorting lanyards [?]
* Doing a sweep with bin-bags
* Putting up posters and roller banners
* Bringing equipment/media in from van
* Putting up room signs
* Checking on creche supplies
* Helping redirect people from overfull to underfull rooms
* Marking parking spaces
* Assisting anyone who needs accessibility assistance
* Tidying up (that's not QUB's responsibility) / removing posters
* Announcing any changes to all the rooms
* Helping out with tasks in the Project Room or Open Space

### The Great Room Switch

*Morning: HE, MC, GaR, PN, AK, PW, MN, MA*;
*Afternoon: all that are available*

* Rearrange chairs to/from (depending) plenary formation to split-room formation

### Vouchers

*ZGT, HE, NG*

* Hand out 1 food and 1 drink token to each attendee
* One person to hand out tokens marked "D" for dietary requirements, if people have declared in advance

### Non-talk Rooms

These rooms are:

* Creche (1 & 2) [first floor]
* Green room
* Quiet room
* Project room
* Atrium

In the afternoon, the Lightning and Project rooms will be used for the Open Space.
